Atru/mcp server 1.0 ga (#2566)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-mcp-server/v1.0.x/docs/mcp-server/deploy/local.mdx

---
page_title: Deploy Terraform MCP server to your local machine
description: Learn how to deploy Terraform MCP server to your local workstation and integrate with your agent.
---

# Deploy Terraform MCP server locally

This topic describes how to deploy the Terraform Model Context Protocol (MCP) server in your local environment and connect it to your AI agent. Local deployments are best for getting started, working on a solo project, and developing server customizations.   
 
For information about deploying the server to a remote environment, refer to [Deploy Terraform MCP server to a remote environment](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy/remote). 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to deploy the MCP server locally:  
 

> 1. Choose the environment for your local deployment. You can use the following installation methods in remote and local environments, but we recommend deploying to Docker when getting started: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose the environment for your local deployment. You can use the following installation methods in remote and local environments, but we recommend deploying with Docker when getting started: 
```

"with" avoids any potential misunderstanding that the deployment may go to another service (remote) instead of local.  I may be overthinking the word choice.

   - Docker: If you are getting started or aren't working on a collaborative project, we recommend running the server in a local Docker container.

>    - Pre-compiled binary: We recommend downloading and installing the pre-compiled binary if you have special OS requrements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Pre-compiled binary: We recommend downloading and installing the pre-compiled binary if you have special OS requirements. 
```

   - From source: If you are developing customizations for the MCP server, we recommend running it from the source code.

1. If you intend to connect the server to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise account, create an API token for authentication.  
1. Configure the server. Set the transport mode and configure any other settings that match your requirements. To connect to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, you must also configure the server to present your API token.  

## Requirements

The requirements depend on how your installation environment is configured. 

> ### Containerization software 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it might be clearer to add the instructions right here. Separating the list from the instructions could be a bit confusing to read through.

Author: You mean the content under the Docker section?  The page is structured according to the [usage content type](https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TW/pages/2786951262/Design+for+usage+pages) with separate sections for requirements and instructions. It is a pattern we've standardized on.

> To use the Terraform HCP server Docker image, you must have Docker Engine v20.10.21+ or Docker Desktop v4.14.0+ on your local machine. Refer to the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/desktop) for installation instructions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Terraform MCP server Docker image, you must have Docker Engine v20.10.21+ or Docker Desktop v4.14.0+ on your local machine. Refer to the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/desktop) for installation instructions. 
```

 
You can run the server on other containerization platforms, such as Podman or Colima, but we have not tested them and don’t provide support.  

### Pre-compiled binary 

You can run the compiled binary on the following operating systems and architectures: 
 
- MacOS: amd64, arm64 
- FreeBSD:  386, amd64 
- Linux: 386, amd64, arm, arm64 
- Solaris: amd64 
- Windows: 386, amd64  

### Source 

You must install the [Go development environment](https://go.dev/).  
 
### HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise 

If connecting to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, you must have network access to `https://app.terraform.io` or your Terraform Enterprise endpoint. 
 

## Docker

Docker provides the most reliable and consistent way to run the Terraform MCP server across different environments. To run the server in Docker, start Docker on your system, then integrate with your AI assistant. 

### Enable authentication

> Set the `TFE_TOKEN` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enteprise API token. Set the `TFE_HOSTNAME` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enteprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `TFE_TOKEN` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise API token. Set the `TFE_HOSTNAME` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enterprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.
```

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Visual Studio Code">

1. Verify [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) is installed.
1. Verify the [GitHub Copilot extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview) is installed and chats are configured to `Agent` mode.

> 1. Verify MCP support enabled, refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",

>             "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=${input:tfe_token}",

Reviewer: I haven't tried this, so maybe it's configured "right" by default, but the overview says that the default transport is `STDIO`.  Does Docker automatically run in HTTP Streamable mode?

If not, do we need to add the args here to make it run in HTTP Streamable mode?

Author: This is the local deployment page, so this configuration is intended to run in stdio

Reviewer: Oh, right 🤦‍♂️

          "id": "tfe_token",
          "description": "Terraform API Token",
          "password": true
        },
        {
          "type": "promptString",
          "id": "tfe_address",
          "description": "Terraform Address",
          "password": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
  ```

  Alternatively, to use the server in a specific workspace, create an `mcp.json` file with the following configuration in your workspace's `.vscode` directory:

  ```json
  {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=${input:tfe_token}",
          "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=${input:tfe_address}",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    },
    "inputs": [
      {
        "type": "promptString",
        "id": "tfe_token",
        "description": "Terraform API Token",
        "password": true
      },
      {
        "type": "promptString",
        "id": "tfe_address",
        "description": "Terraform Address",
        "password": false
      }
    ]
  }
  ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cursor">

1. Verify [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify the MCP support configured, refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

> 1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipses menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipsis menu.
```

1. Choose **Agent** from the **Default new chat mode** drop-down menu.
1. Select **MCP** from the **Cursor Settings** sidebar to verify that Terraform MCP server tools are enabled. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Claude Desktop">

1. Verify [Claude Desktop](https://support.anthropic.com/en/articles/10065433-installing-claude-for-desktop) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file and add the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat pane and clicking the **search and tools** slider icon.
1. Click **terraform-mcp-server** to verify that all tools are enabled and accessible. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Q">

1. Verify [Amazon Q](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/command-line-installing.html) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file with the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Bob Shell / Bob IDE">

1. Verify [Bob Shell or Bob IDE](https://bob.ibm.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.
```

1. To use the MCP server, add the following configuration to `~/.bob/settings/mcp_settings.json` for global configuration or `.bob/mcp.json` for local projects:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<PASTE_TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
          "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<PASTE_TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ],
        "disabled": false
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Load the server configuration using either the Bob shell or IDE:
   - Shell: Run the `bob /mcp refresh` command.
   - IDE: Open settings and navigate to the MCP tab to load the configuration.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> ### Run without authentication

Reviewer: Is it worth a warning that this is a bad idea?  Or at least a bad idea outside of some very limited use cases?

Author: @vravind1 @Shweta-Deshpande - correct me if I'm wrong, but I think this is the wrong way to present this. Instead of auth vs w/o-auth, this should be connect to your registry or the public registry, right?

> Set the `tfe_token` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise API token. Set the `tfe_hostname` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enterprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
```
I believe this is a copy/paste error

> Set the `tfe_token` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enteprise API token. Set the `tfe_hostname` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enteprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `tfe_token` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise API token. Set the `tfe_hostname` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enterprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information. 
```

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Visual Studio Code">

1. Verify [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) is installed.
1. Verify the [GitHub Copilot extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview) is installed and chats are configured to `Agent` mode.

> 1. Verify MCP support enabled, refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Alternatively, to use the server in a specific workspace, create an `mcp.json` file with the following configuration in your workspace's `.vscode` directory:

  ```json
  {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat interface and selecting **Agent** from the mode settings.
1. Click the tools icon to verify that Terraform MCP server tools appear in the available tools list.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cursor">

1. Verify [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify the MCP support configured, refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

> 1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipses menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipsis menu.
```

1. Choose **Agent** from the **Default new chat mode** drop-down menu.
1. Select **MCP** from the **Cursor Settings** sidebar to verify that Terraform MCP server tools are enabled. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Claude Desktop">

1. Verify [Claude Desktop](https://support.anthropic.com/en/articles/10065433-installing-claude-for-desktop) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file and add the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat pane and clicking the **search and tools** slider icon.
1. Click **terraform-mcp-server** to verify that all tools are enabled and accessible. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Q">

1. Verify [Amazon Q](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/command-line-installing.html) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file with the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Bob Shell / Bob IDE">

1. Verify [Bob Shell or Bob IDE](https://bob.ibm.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is configured, refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.
```

<!-- commenting this out for now because it seems like an antipattern open to discussing further.

## Enable telemetry

Terraform MCP server uses OpenTelemetry to collect telemetry metrics. Set the `OTEL_METRICS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` to enable metrics. You must use the streamable HTTP server path to collect metrics. Streaming metrics is not supported on the default stdio path. 

In HTTP mode, the server implements the following lifecycle:

1. Creates an OTel meter provider 
1. Exports metrics over `OTLP/HTTP` to `OTEL_METRICS_ENDPOINT` 
1. Flushes the metrics according to the interval set by `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORT_INTERVAL` 
1. Adds the service identity is `OTEL_METRICS_SERVICE_NAME` and `OTEL_METRICS_SERVICE_VERSION`

Terraform MCP server generates the metrics and exports them to the configured OTLP endpoint. Then, the server can receive and forward the telemetry to Datadog through its own collector or forwarding setup. This repository produces OTel metrics, but the remote repository is responsible for routing them to Datadog.

Refer to [telemetry metrics reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#telemetry-metrics) for more information.

-->

> ## Start the server

Reviewer: For the Docker deployment, it looks like the IDEs will start it automatically.

Worth adding text to explain that this is for the binary / source options only?

> You can use the `terraform-mcp-server` CLI and specify the transport protocol you want to use to start the server. Refer to the [transport protocols reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#transport-protocols) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
If you installed the pre-compiled binary or built the binary from source, you must start the server manually. You can use the `terraform-mcp-server` CLI and specify the transport protocol you want to use to start the server. Refer to the [transport protocols reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#transport-protocols) for more information.
```

---

# Deploy Terraform MCP server locally

This topic describes how to deploy the Terraform Model Context Protocol (MCP) server in your local environment and connect it to your AI agent. Local deployments are best for getting started, working on a solo project, and developing server customizations.   
 
For information about deploying the server to a remote environment, refer to [Deploy Terraform MCP server to a remote environment](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy/remote). 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to deploy the MCP server locally:  
 
1. Choose the environment for your local deployment. You can use the following installation methods in remote and local environments, but we recommend deploying with Docker when getting started: 

   - Docker: If you are getting started or aren't working on a collaborative project, we recommend running the server in a local Docker container.
   - Pre-compiled binary: We recommend downloading and installing the pre-compiled binary if you have special OS requirements. 
   - From source: If you are developing customizations for the MCP server, we recommend running it from the source code.

> 1. If you intend to connect the server to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise account, create an API token for authentication.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If you intend to connect the server to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise organization, create an API token for authentication.  
```

Very much a nit, but IIRC all of our recommendations are a team token for a specific org rather than a user token

1. Configure the server. Set the transport mode and configure any other settings that match your requirements. To connect to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, you must also configure the server to present your API token.  

## Requirements

> The requirements depend on how your installation environment is configured. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The requirements depend on how you configure your installation environment. 
```

 
You can run the server on other containerization platforms, such as Podman or Colima, but we have not tested them and don’t provide support.  

### Pre-compiled binary 

You can run the compiled binary on the following operating systems and architectures: 
 
- MacOS: amd64, arm64 
- FreeBSD:  386, amd64 
- Linux: 386, amd64, arm, arm64 
- Solaris: amd64 
- Windows: 386, amd64  

### Source 

You must install the [Go development environment](https://go.dev/).  
 
### HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise 

If connecting to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, you must have network access to `https://app.terraform.io` or your Terraform Enterprise endpoint. 

You must also present an API token. Refer to [API Tokens](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) in the HCP Terraform documentation or [API Tokens](/terraform/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/api-tokens) in the Terraform Enterprise documentation for instructions on creating API tokens. 

> Follow security best practices any time you generate a token for accessing your Terraform web UI. Refer to [Secure configuration](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy#secure-configuration) for additional information. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow security best practices any time you generate a token for accessing HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise. Refer to [Secure configuration](/terraform/mcp-server/deploy#secure-configuration) for additional information. 
```

 

## Docker

Docker provides the most reliable and consistent way to run the Terraform MCP server across different environments. To run the server in Docker, start Docker on your system, then integrate with your AI assistant. 

### Connect to HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise 

> To allow the server to connect to your private registry on HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, set the `TFE_TOKEN` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise API token and set the `TFE_HOSTNAME` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enterprise deployment. Then, add the configurations to the server arguments. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To allow the server to connect to your private registry on HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise, set the `TFE_TOKEN` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise API token. To connect the server to Terraform Enterprise, you must also set the `TFE_HOSTNAME` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enterprise deployment. Then, add the configurations to the server arguments. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.
```

Small tweak to clarify the user only needs to set the hostname if they are connecting to Terraform Enterprise.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Visual Studio Code">

1. Verify [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) is installed.
1. Verify the [GitHub Copilot extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview) is installed and chats are configured to `Agent` mode.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in VS Code. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.
```

          "id": "tfe_token",
          "description": "Terraform API Token",
          "password": true
        },
        {
          "type": "promptString",
          "id": "tfe_address",
          "description": "Terraform Address",
          "password": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
  ```

  Alternatively, to use the server in a specific workspace, create an `mcp.json` file with the following configuration in your workspace's `.vscode` directory:

  ```json
  {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=${input:tfe_token}",
          "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=${input:tfe_address}",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    },
    "inputs": [
      {
        "type": "promptString",
        "id": "tfe_token",
        "description": "Terraform API Token",
        "password": true
      },
      {
        "type": "promptString",
        "id": "tfe_address",
        "description": "Terraform Address",
        "password": false
      }
    ]
  }
  ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cursor">

1. Verify [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Cursor. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    
```

Struggling if I think it's equally important to clarify this here and below. In the VS Code example I think there is a better case since we list multiple things the user needs installed, leaving this to your call.

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipsis menu.
1. Choose **Agent** from the **Default new chat mode** drop-down menu.
1. Select **MCP** from the **Cursor Settings** sidebar to verify that Terraform MCP server tools are enabled. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Claude Desktop">

1. Verify [Claude Desktop](https://support.anthropic.com/en/articles/10065433-installing-claude-for-desktop) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Claude Desktop. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file and add the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat pane and clicking the **search and tools** slider icon.
1. Click **terraform-mcp-server** to verify that all tools are enabled and accessible. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Q">

1. Verify [Amazon Q](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/command-line-installing.html) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Amazon Q. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file with the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
            "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Bob Shell / Bob IDE">

1. Verify [Bob Shell or Bob IDE](https://bob.ibm.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Bob. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.
```

1. To use the MCP server, add the following configuration to `~/.bob/settings/mcp_settings.json` for global configuration or `.bob/mcp.json` for local projects:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "-e", "TFE_ADDRESS=<<PASTE_TFE_ADDRESS_HERE>>",
          "-e", "TFE_TOKEN=<<PASTE_TFE_TOKEN_HERE>>",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ],
        "disabled": false
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Load the server configuration using either the Bob shell or IDE:
   - Shell: Run the `bob /mcp refresh` command.
   - IDE: Open settings and navigate to the MCP tab to load the configuration.

</Tab>

</Tabs>

### Connect to the public registry only

The server does not require a token to retrieve information in the public Terraform registry.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Visual Studio Code">

1. Verify [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) is installed.
1. Verify the [GitHub Copilot extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview) is installed and chats are configured to `Agent` mode.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in VS Code. Refer to the [VS Code MCP documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers) for more information.
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Alternatively, to use the server in a specific workspace, create an `mcp.json` file with the following configuration in your workspace's `.vscode` directory:

  ```json
  {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat interface and selecting **Agent** from the mode settings.
1. Click the tools icon to verify that Terraform MCP server tools appear in the available tools list.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cursor">

1. Verify [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Cursor. Refer to [Cursor's MCP documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol#configuring-mcp-servers) for more information.    
```

1. To use the MCP server in all workspaces, add the following configuration to your user settings JSON file:

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the installation by opening the chat pane and selecting **Chat Settings** from the ellipsis menu.
1. Choose **Agent** from the **Default new chat mode** drop-down menu.
1. Select **MCP** from the **Cursor Settings** sidebar to verify that Terraform MCP server tools are enabled. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Claude Desktop">

1. Verify [Claude Desktop](https://support.anthropic.com/en/articles/10065433-installing-claude-for-desktop) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Claude Desktop. Refer to [Claude Desktop's MCP documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file and add the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Verify the integration by opening the chat pane and clicking the **search and tools** slider icon.
1. Click **terraform-mcp-server** to verify that all tools are enabled and accessible. Refer to the [tools reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#available-tools) for more information.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Q">

1. Verify [Amazon Q](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/command-line-installing.html) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Amazon Q. Refer to [Amazon Q's MCP documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html) for more information.    
```

1. Create or edit the `mcp.json` file with the following configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "docker",
          "args": [
            "run",
            "-i",
            "--rm",
            "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```
  
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Bob Shell / Bob IDE">

1. Verify [Bob Shell or Bob IDE](https://bob.ibm.com) is installed.

> 1. Verify MCP support is enabled. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Verify MCP support is enabled in Bob. Refer to [Bob's MCP documentation](https://bob.ibm.com/docs/ide) for more information.
```

  ```json
  {
    "mcpServers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ],
        "disabled": false
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Load the server configuration:
   - **Bob Shell**: Run `/mcp refresh` command
   - **Bob IDE**: Open settings and navigate to the MCP tab to load the configuration

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Pre-compiled binary

The compiled binary option provides a lightweight installation without Docker dependencies. This method is ideal when you want to minimize resource usage or work in environments with restricted container access.

Download the binary for your operating system and architecture from the [release library](https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform-mcp-server). Then, add the configure your client settings. 

If you downloaded a supported version of the binary, you can enable authentication in the configuration. Otherwise, you can run the server without authentication. 

### Enable authentication

> Set the `tfe_token` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enteprise API token. Set the `tfe_hostname` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enteprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set the `TFE_TOKEN` environment variable to your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enteprise API token. Set the `TFE_HOSTNAME` environment variable to the URL of your Terraform Enteprise deployment. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for more information.
```

Not sure if these are case-sensitive, but IMO would be best to capitalize them to match env variable usage throughout the docs

### Run without authentication

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "type": "stdio",
        "command": "/path/to/terraform-mcp-server"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Install from source

Installing from source gives you access to the latest features and allows for customization. This method requires a Go development environment.

1. Install the latest stable release.

  ```shell-session
  $ go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@latest
  ```

  Alternatively, you can install the development version on `main`.

  ```shell-session
  $ go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@main
  ```

1. After installation, add the following configuration to your client.

  ```json
  {
    "mcp": {
      "servers": {
        "terraform": {
          "command": "/path/to/terraform-mcp-server",
          "args": ["stdio"]
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Replace `/path/to/terraform-mcp-server` with the actual path to your downloaded binary. The binary location depends on your Go installation and `GOPATH` configuration. 
  
Use `which terraform-mcp-server` to find the installed binary path.

> <!-- commenting this out for now because it seems like an antipattern open to discussing further.

Reviewer 3: yeah this is interesting. Technically the user could run in the Stremable protocol locally if they really want metrics, but 1) seems like a rare use case and 2) I'm not sure how useful telemetry from something running locally really is. 

Another option would be to call out this as a potential use case, but link to this doucmentation in the remote docs?

## Enable telemetry

> Terraform MCP server uses OpenTelemetry to collect telemetry metrics. Set the `OTEL_METRICS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` to enable metrics. You must use the streamable HTTP server path to collect metrics. Streaming metrics is not supported on the default stdio path. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Terraform MCP server uses OpenTelemetry to collect telemetry metrics. Set the `OTEL_METRICS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` to enable metrics. You must use the streamable HTTP server path to collect metrics. Streaming metrics is not supported on the default stdio path. 
```

In a large majority of cases, we refer to the tool as "_The_ Terraform MCP server"

In HTTP mode, the server implements the following lifecycle:

1. Creates an OTel meter provider 
1. Exports metrics over `OTLP/HTTP` to `OTEL_METRICS_ENDPOINT` 
1. Flushes the metrics according to the interval set by `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORT_INTERVAL` 
1. Adds the service identity is `OTEL_METRICS_SERVICE_NAME` and `OTEL_METRICS_SERVICE_VERSION`

> Terraform MCP server generates the metrics and exports them to the configured OTLP endpoint. Then, the server can receive and forward the telemetry to Datadog through its own collector or forwarding setup. This repository produces OTel metrics, but the remote repository is responsible for routing them to Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Terraform MCP server generates the metrics and exports them to the configured OTLP endpoint. Then, the server can receive and forward the telemetry to Datadog through its own collector or forwarding setup. This repository produces OTel metrics, but the remote repository is responsible for routing them to Datadog.
```

Refer to [telemetry metrics reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#telemetry-metrics) for more information.

-->

## Start the server

If you installed the pre-compiled binary or built the binary from source, you must start the server manually. You can use the `terraform-mcp-server` CLI and specify the transport protocol you want to use to start the server. Refer to the [transport protocols reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#transport-protocols) for more information.

Start the server in `stdio` mode. 

```shell-session
$ terraform-mcp-server stdio [--log-file /path/to/log]
```

Run the following command on the local instance to start the server in `streamable-http` mode:

```shell-session
$ terraform-mcp-server streamable-http \
  [--transport-port 8080] \
  [--transport-host 127.0.0.1] \
  [--mcp-endpoint /mcp] \
  [--log-file /path/to/log]
```

Instead of setting values manually, you can also use the supported environment variables. Refer to the [environment variables reference](/terraform/mcp-server/reference#environment-variables) for details.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer 3: Should this essentially mirror the next steps of deploying the server remotely? I noticed this is a list whereas that page presents the same next steps as a paragraph
